What happens when you initialize a repository? 
it creates the git framework inside of 
.git
in the main directory

Why do you need to do it?
to setup / configure git to be ready to do all the gitty things 
it shall do

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? 
Staging area only contains those files we choose for it to contain...
Working directory may contain many more files
Repository contains version history comments, other metadata,
    and also only stores things that have been added    

What value do you think it offers?
Staging allows you to, for instance not resend a 1gb data file with each commit, to have private log files / data / instances that aren't uploaded to a common server. To batch uploads, focusing on the relevant files each time
e.g. A & B are UX files one stage, C&D are backend second stage...

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
You can stage things in logical batches (rather than a whole bunch of stuff at once...)
Git has some nice tools to help keep track of what has changed,(git status) 
and even to figure out how it changed (git diff)

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? 
Obviously when creating a different version from the main one
Either an experimental version, or one that adaps the original features
into a new application (imagine branching an nn, and tweaking that pre-built code)
Also, for having an alpha, beta, and stable release

How would branches help?
Basically by letting separate programs evolve in separate directions, there wouldn't necessarily be a lot of rewinding and resetting...
Could have many many versions

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
You can see when and where different branches were spawned,
this can also show you lost nodes etc..

What is the result of merging two branches together?
The code is shuffled together to try to keep all of the meaningful changes
specifically it keeps
shared code
unique deletes
unique adds

Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
The coins and master "merged" becoming one thing so we show them together
also, master is now head of two things...

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Auto merging can save a lot of time, and in cases where the changes really do function independently of each other, will be very effect...
It can run into problems by potentially merging incompatible code (being too permissive) because it doesn't have any understanding of the code being merged.
Pro is also to see conflicts quickly and easily...
Manual merges would require code to be reviewed and so are possibly safer, and even potentially faster as no errors might be introduced

